docs/mjinn guide mysql server and workbench Linux.md, before:

### Install mysql Server in Ubuntu 20.04 - last updated 25 Dec 2020

Open a terminal on the desktop, in the home folder or anywhere and execute these commands:
 
	sudo apt-get install mysql-server 
	
	sudo mysql_secure_installation

You may be asked to set a password for root.  **If so, use a reasonable password for root and write it down - eg heZ1234567!** 

You may be asked a series of questions: I said no to validate passwords and yes to everything else

### Install mysql workbench in Ubuntu 20.04

Workbench is now available to install using the Ubuntu software app

After workbench is installed, start workbench by clicking the **show applications** button at bottom left and search for **work..**.

### I had problems connecting workbench to mysql server using the correct root password:

One issue is mysql server may not configure so as to allow workbench to connect as root.  If so, please follow the mmjinn guide for mysql console and maria, where you will learn how to configure mysql server in a terminal

Another issue is if you have installed MySQLWorkbench as a Snap package. You want to store the database password(s) in the Gnome Passwords & Keys facility. However, a Snap package is sandboxed; it is not by default allowed to access this service. When you choose "Store in keychain" MySQLWorkbench is blocked by AppArmor. You need to enter a command to allow this package to access the service. The command is:

    sudo snap connect mysql-workbench-community:password-manager-service :password-manager-service

### Problems in importing mysql functions and procedures using a mysql dump created in workbench by another user

The import of functions and procedures seems to fail every time.  Assuming you are trying to import a single sql file containing all the functions and procedures, 
you first need to replace all occurrences of  CREATE DEFINER=**** FUNCTION with CREATE FUNCTION and then remove all occurrences of NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER within the whole sql file. 
The import of functions and procedures will probably still fail with an error mentioning "log_bin_trust_function_creators".  
If so, either in mysql console or in workbench, run this command/query:  set global log_bin_trust_function_creators = 1; and then try again.  
That setting only lasts for the workbench setting

**Hez favoured simple solution to data import issues:**
 
Create two sql dump folders, one being just all the tables, named TablesDump, and the other being just the teeny user table along with the functions and procedures, named UserFuncProcDump

The TablesDump sql dump file should import fine as it is.  Now it is easier to edit the small FuncProcDump sql file as set out above, to remove the offending text and then do data import in workbench.  

So, after refreshing, you should now see all the tables and all the functions and procedures.
    
**Feel free to check out the mjinn guide for mysql console and maria**

Commit message:

added "using sed in linux" to mysql import guide in docs

docs/mjinn guide mysql server and workbench Linux.md, after:

### Install mysql Server in Ubuntu 20.04 - last updated 25 Dec 2020

Open a terminal on the desktop, in the home folder or anywhere and execute these commands:
 
	sudo apt-get install mysql-server 
	
	sudo mysql_secure_installation

You may be asked to set a password for root.  **If so, use a reasonable password for root and write it down - eg heZ1234567!** 

You may be asked a series of questions: I said no to validate passwords and yes to everything else

### Install mysql workbench in Ubuntu 20.04

Workbench is now available to install using the Ubuntu software app

After workbench is installed, start workbench by clicking the **show applications** button at bottom left and search for **work..**.

### I had problems connecting workbench to mysql server using the correct root password:

One issue is mysql server may not configure so as to allow workbench to connect as root.  If so, please follow the mmjinn guide for mysql console and maria, where you will learn how to configure mysql server in a terminal

Another issue is if you have installed MySQLWorkbench as a Snap package. You want to store the database password(s) in the Gnome Passwords & Keys facility. However, a Snap package is sandboxed; it is not by default allowed to access this service. When you choose "Store in keychain" MySQLWorkbench is blocked by AppArmor. You need to enter a command to allow this package to access the service. The command is:

    sudo snap connect mysql-workbench-community:password-manager-service :password-manager-service

### Problems in importing mysql functions and procedures using a mysql dump created in workbench by another user

The import of functions and procedures seems to fail every time.  Assuming you are trying to import a single sql file containing all the functions and procedures, 
you first need to replace all occurrences of  CREATE DEFINER=**** FUNCTION with CREATE FUNCTION and then remove all occurrences of NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER within the whole sql file. 
The import of functions and procedures will probably still fail with an error mentioning "log_bin_trust_function_creators".  
If so, either in mysql console or in workbench, run this command/query:  set global log_bin_trust_function_creators = 1; and then try again.  
That setting only lasts for the workbench setting

**Hez favoured simple solution to data import issues:**
 
Create two sql dump folders, one being just all the tables, named TablesDump, and the other being just the teeny user table along with the functions and procedures, named UserFuncProcDump

The TablesDump sql dump file should import fine as it is.  Now it is easier to edit the small FuncProcDump sql file as 
set out above and below, to remove the offending text and then do data import in workbench.  

So, after refreshing, you should now see all the tables and all the functions and procedures.

**Using sed in linux**

Run these commands in a terminal opened in the folder containing your sql dump file eg "mydump.sql"
  
	sed -i 's/NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER//' mydump.sql 
	sed -i 's/DEFINER=`root`@`localhost`//' mydump.sql 

If you get an error because of text containing SET TIME_ZONE=, then I suggest you remove this line, which is a few lines up from the very end of the sql file.  I will ask JB if sed can do this.

    
**Feel free to check out the mjinn guide for mysql console and maria**
